MRI intro part 1 (#34)
nimh-dsst/lunch-and-learn: discussions/Intro_MRI_Part_1.md

# Introduction to MRI, Part I

## 4/22/2025

Attendance: 10

### Introduction

DSST Members gave a crash course into how MRI's work. The following is a very brief overview of the components of an MRI scanner.

### The Main Magnet

> A key component to an MRI scanner is the main magnet. The main magnet is super cooled with liquid helium and can come in a variety of strengths. The strength of the magnetic field is given in [Teslas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesla_(unit)) (the SI unit, not the car). Clinical scanners can be either 1.5 T or 3 T, while research scanners can be greater. Portable MRI scanners can have weaker magnets. The strongest MRI scanner known at NIH was 11.7 T. To put this in perspective, Junk Yard magnets, like the [Giant Magnet](https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Giant_Magnet), the climactic antagonist of the classic 1987 film [The Brave Little Toaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Brave_Little_Toaster) is 1.5 T.

Author: ```suggestion
A key component to an MRI scanner is the main magnet. The main magnet is super cooled with liquid helium and can come in a variety of strengths. The strength of the magnetic field is given in [Teslas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesla_(unit)) (the SI unit, not the car). Clinical scanners are usually a little weaker at strengths like 1.5 T or 3 T, whereas research scanners are often greater strengths. Portable MRI scanners can have weaker magnets. The strongest MRI scanner known at NIH was 11.7 T. To put this in perspective, Junk Yard magnets, like the [Giant Magnet](https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Giant_Magnet), the climactic antagonist of the classic 1987 film [The Brave Little Toaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Brave_Little_Toaster) is 1.5 T. The Earth's magnetic field strength at its surface is approximately 50 microtesla (50 μT), a.k.a. 0.5 gauss (G) [1 T = 10,000 G].
```
